The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Poors, by Harry Lorayne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Poors

Author: Harry Lorayne

Release Date: September 29, 2019 [EBook #60384]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE POORS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                               THE POORS

                           BY HARRY LORAYNE

                      _This may prove to you that
                      Television can change your
                      life more than you think!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, October 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The world newspapers had heralded the event for months. "The First
Personal Visit from Outer Space" was the most important headline of the
decade. Now there were perhaps sixty thousand people crowding behind
ropes and guards at the Earth Interspace Airport, waiting patiently for
Mr. Kramvit of Planet Six.

Fourth Vice President Vincent J. Carrowick had been selected to be Mr.
Kramvit's guide for the length of his visit. He was waiting now, with
Secretary Gordon, in the airport's executive office.

Carrowick spoke first, "Well, this is it. I've spoken to Kramvit
at least eight times on the Vidcope phone, but I'm as nervous as a
contestant right now."

Gordon eyed the screen which was noting the ship's approach. "I don't
see why you should be. You know what he's like basically. Their bodies
and physical capabilities are the same as ours, and most of the people
of Six speak English almost as well as we do, by now."

He looked at Carrowick, "Are their Vidcopes going to stay on Kramvit
during his entire visit?"

Carrowick spoke slowly, "Yes. At least they're going to try; on all six
of the Planets. Kramvit's going to carry a pin microphone on his person
all the time. So they should see and hear us no matter where we are."

"How long do you intend to be out of the country with him?" asked
Gordon.

"Well, most of his time will be spent here, visiting all fifty-three
states. We'll take one cruise to pay token visits to the heads of all
countries first, then back here until he goes home. Hey! He's landing,
let's go!"

... After over an hour of welcoming speeches, photographs and newspaper
reporters, Marryl Kramvit was alone in the executive office with Vice
President Carrowick and Secretary Gordon.

"If we didn't know you were from Six, we would certainly take you for
an Earthman," Carrowick was saying, "Why, your clothes, your coloring,
everything about you is just the same!"

Kramvit smiled and said, "Well, thank you. Physically, of course, we
are the same. The clothes--well, ours are quite a bit different, as
you know. I had these made by a superb tailor who copied them from our
Vidcope screens.

"Many of our females," Kramvit continued, "have already started to wear
some of your ladies' styles, and quite becoming they are."

Carrowick put on his cloak, and said, "Well, let's be on our way.
You're to meet our President for lunch, and then we start our tour, if
that's all right with you."

"Why, of course, that's why I'm here, and I'm anxious to see your
world. Particularly America."

       *       *       *       *       *

The trip around the world had gone as smoothly as could be expected.
Were it not for the multitudes that gathered at each airport in order
to catch a glimpse of Kramvit, it would have been just perfect.
Kramvit, however, was as cordial to the throngs as he was to the heads
of their respective countries. He was a fine good will ambassador. A
little flicker of disappointment was usually evident when the people
saw for themselves that this man from another world looked and acted
just as they did.

All in all, Carrowick was quite pleased, and he and Kramvit were now
in the Vincent and Marryl stage, except in public.

"Well, you've been in most of the countries of the Earth," said
Carrowick, as they relaxed in the private plane, "and visited forty of
our States of America. What do you think, Marryl?"

"I'm pleased, of course," answered Kramvit. "You're aware, I'm sure,
Vincent, that Six and the other five planets of the Orb are a bit
farther advanced than Earth. But, I don't think it will be very long
before you're up to us.

"I've been able to understand almost everything I've seen," he
continued, "and I've made notes of what I couldn't understand; _one
thing_, Vincent, you haven't explained to me at all."

"What's that?"

"Well, so far as I can see, there are only two economic classes here
on Earth. I've seen what appear to me to be only very wealthy people
and very, very poor people. I've also noticed," here Kramvit smiled,
"that you have sort of avoided these poor people, and what I assume to
be their dwellings. I've seen glimpses of the squalor and terribly poor
sections in each of your states so far."

Carrowick seemed a bit shocked, but Kramvit continued. "Also, you have
addressed almost all of the working people with whom we've been in
contact as Poor Mr. Jones and Poor Miss Smith, and so on. While those
of the wealthy class, you simply addressed as Mr. or Mrs. Why?"

Carrowick _was_ shocked. "Didn't you know? No, I see you really
didn't. I'm terribly sorry, Marryl, we here on Earth take it so much
for granted, and I assumed it was the same all over the Orb."

"No, I don't know what you mean," said Kramvit, "on Six and the others,
we have our quota of poor people. We also have a middle class, (in
which I think I would belong) and some very wealthy people. But the
definite dividing line here, I don't understand.

"I know some of your ancient history, but I've noticed complete
integration wherever I've been. I've seen absolutely no discrimination
as far as color, faith or religion is concerned. I saw no caste system
at all, even in India, and inter-marriage, it seems, has become
completely acceptable."

"That is so," interrupted Carrowick. "We've had no such prejudice at
all as long as I've been alive. It has avoided a lot of trouble. Nobody
has been able to think up a reason for a war, since."

"Then why," asked Kramvit, "have I seen these Poors, as you call them,
sitting only in the rear of busses? Why have I not seen one of these
unfortunate looking people in any of the restaurants in which we've
eaten, or for that matter, in most any public place?"

"The reason for them not being in any of the restaurants is simple.
They can't afford the prices. Haven't you noticed all the Vidcope, or
V.C. centers here?"

"Yes, I have."

"You've seen some of the V.C. shows, haven't you?"

"I didn't pay much attention to them," answered Kramvit. "I'm not much
for V.C. Incidentally, we call it T.V., for television, at home. Many
of our people have become quite addicted to it in the last few years. I
can take it or leave it alone. Usually the latter, I'm afraid."

Carrowick asked, "Aren't all your shows Qua shows?"

"I'm sorry, what is a Qua show?"

"You're jesting, of course," laughed Carrowick. "They were once called
Quiz shows. Now, they're Quas, for question and answer, I guess."

"Oh, yes," said Kramvit, "we do have many of those."

"Why, that's _all_ we have here, on commercial V.C." exclaimed
Carrowick. "And, there's the obvious answer to your original question!"

"The answer? I'm sorry, I don't see what you mean."

"It's simple," said Carrowick. "The Poors are people who have never
been a contestant on a Qua show! The wealthy are those who either have
been winners, or whose ancestors were."

It was Kramvit's turn to be shocked. "I don't believe it."

"Oh, yes, it's true," said Carrowick. "Of course, some of the Poors
_have_ been contestants, but didn't win."

Kramvit was staring at Carrowick. "You are quite serious, aren't you?"

"Of course," answered Carrowick, "the situation has been so, for
perhaps two hundred years--we've come to take it for what it is."

"I'll wager that the Poors don't take it quite as calmly as you do.
Don't tell me that they're satisfied with their position."

"I wouldn't say they were satisfied," was the answer, "but they know no
other way of life, and don't have much choice in the matter."

Kramvit was finding it difficult to picture the situation. "Well, as
I've told you," he said, "we have T.V. on Six, but we've been stressing
variety and drama shows. Don't you have any big V.C. stars, like
comedians or singers here?"

"No, we don't. I've never seen any variety or drama shows on V.C."

"I'm surprised. You see, we have been using all the air time, or most
of it, for entertainment purposes. Commercially, T.V. is just a baby
with us. We've been using it much longer than you have, technically,
but not commercially. I'd say that we've had sponsored shows for about
fourteen years."

"Oh, then it is a comparatively new thing with you," said Carrowick.
"We've had commercial Vidcope for over five hundred years."

Kramvit shook his head. "I still can't see why your Poors have to live
in such poverty. Don't they get paid on their jobs?"

"Why, sure they do," answered Carrowick, "but their rate of pay is
not particularly high. You see, only the Poors do all the menial and
service work; aside from high service positions like government work,
of course. There are so many Poors and so few jobs for them, that those
that work are little better off than those that don't."

"I see," said Kramvit, "and is there no protection for these
unemployed? I mean Social Security or unemployment insurance, which I
know you did have a long time ago."

"No, there isn't. We had to stop that because if we kept it up we'd
have no workers at all," replied Carrowick. "Believe me, Marryl, I
don't particularly like the situation. We've tried integration in one
or two sections, but only riots resulted. I think that eventually we'll
eliminate some of the prejudices, but it can't be pushed or hurried.
It'll take many years to do it. I'm sure I won't live to see it gone
completely."

"And," asked Kramvit, "have _you_ been a winner on a Qua show?"

"Oh, no. I'm not one of those nouveau riche; my great grandfather won
eight million dollars, tax free, when he was just a boy. That took care
of us, and will take care of us from here on in."

"I see," said Kramvit. "Vincent, I want to visit some of these people
in their homes. Will you take me?"

Carrowick was shocked again. "I don't think you'll enjoy it, Marryl. Do
you really feel it's necessary?"

"Please don't refuse me, Vincent. I do feel it's important. I've
understood almost everything I've seen here on Earth. Either because
we've been faced with it ourselves on Six, or I've read about it. But
this is entirely new to me."

"All right," agreed Carrowick reluctantly. "I'm supposed to show you
anything you want to see, but you won't like it."

"Let me be the judge of that."

       *       *       *       *       *

They had ridden to the end of the upper level moving street in
comfortable armchairs. All of Carrowick's arguments couldn't swerve
Kramvit from his idea of visiting some Poors. Kramvit was just about
through with his explanation of how all the automobiles on Six drove
underground, and didn't have to use the lower street level, as they did
here; when they came to the end of the moving street.

Now they were both walking through the filthy, garbage laden streets of
the Poors' village. The smell wrinkled Carrowick's nose, and he was not
displeased to see that Kramvit wasn't quite enjoying it, either.

"Doesn't the sanitation department know about this?" asked Kramvit.
"Don't they ever remove this dirt?"

"No," answered Carrowick, "the Poors have to carry it to appointed
garbage dumps themselves. They let it pile up until even they can't
stand it, then they usually get rid of some of it."

He went on to explain that in all the cities, except in Poor villages,
all garbage recepticles led to giant underground incinerators. Here the
fires burned continually. But in the hot weather, the heat from these
fires was used as power to run an underground air conditioner, so that
all the streets were cooled. In the wintertime, of course, these same
fires warmed the cities and highways.

As they walked, they were both aware of the many Poors scrounging and
searching in the debris. They were also aware of the silence that fell
as they neared groups of people. The Poors just stared at them, and
talked excitedly when they were out of earshot.

"They're not used to seeing any of us in their villages," remarked
Carrowick.

Kramvit smiled, somewhat bitterly, it seemed to Carrowick, "No, I
shouldn't think they would be."

As they rounded a corner, Kramvit pointed to a car parked about a
hundred feet away. It was almost leaning against a broken down shack,
and was so dirty that it was impossible to make out its color.

"How did that get here, Vincent? Surely, nobody here can afford a car."

Carrowick laughed, "No, they can't. That happens to be this year's
Sputzmobile, one of our most expensive cars. Although you wouldn't know
it from the looks of that one. They are given as consolation prizes to
losers on almost all the larger Qua shows."

"I see. Why don't those people sell the cars? It seems to me they could
use the money."

"I guess they could," answered Carrowick. "But to whom could they sell
it? Very few of us ever buy a second hand car. We all change our cars
as soon as the new ones appear. Anyway, most of the losers want to keep
them; they consider it a mark of distinction."

He frowned, and continued, "They drive them around the villages
whenever they can beg, borrow or steal some regular grade atomic
pellets. And, whenever they can maneuver through these streets. Those
that own them sort of look down their noses at the other Poors. They
consider themselves aristocrats of their village, because they, at
least, have been called to appear on a Qua. Actually, they're to be
pitied, they're worse off than the others."

"Why is that?" asked Kramvit.

"Well, once they've appeared on a Qua show, and lost, they'll usually
never be asked again. That's the worst of it, since they have nothing
more to look forward to. Also, I believe that most of the Poors leave
whatever jobs they may have, as soon as they get the call. They feel
it's beneath their dignity somehow. No Poor that gets on a Qua ever
expects to lose. Of course, once they do lose, they can't get their
jobs back. Because when they leave it's like creating a vacuum--all the
Poors in the vicinity flock to apply for his position."

They were just adjacent to one of the Poors' houses at the moment, and
Kramvit asked if he could visit the people that lived there. Carrowick
said he could, but he doubted if they'd find anyone home. It was after
four o'clock, and the large network Quas had already begun. All the
Poors that could navigate would be at the large open air V.C. centers,
which were usually located near the garbage dumps.

These centers were sometimes miles away from many of the Poors, but
that's where they were, no matter what the weather, from four in the
afternoon to eleven at night, when the Quas finished and the news
flashes began.

These centers consisted of a large empty lot, many of which got the
overflow from the adjacent garbage dumps, with two scopes seemingly
suspended about six feet off the ground in the middle. They were
rectangular; about five feet long, and four feet wide. Only a little
over an inch thick, the pictures appeared on both sides of each scope.
They were at right angles to each other, so that the picture could be
seen from any part of the lot.

Carrowick knocked on the old wooden door. There was no answer, and they
were about to turn away, when the door opened creakily to display an
elderly man. He was clean, except for the dirty rags that were tied
around his throat.

Carrowick explained who they were, and the elderly gentleman invited
them in.

"Come in, come in. I'm honored by your visit," he said in a hoarse
voice. "Well, now I'm almost glad that I have this bad throat,
otherwise I would be at the center, and I'd have missed your visit. By
the way, my name is Poor Mr. Alex Smith."

The shack consisted of two rooms, one of which was obviously a bedroom.
Obviously, because there were a number of flattish mounds of rags,
straw and excelsior on the floor, which could serve no other purpose
than for sleeping. It was completely devoid of any furniture. The room
they were in was the combination living-room, dining room and kitchen.
A few old chairs, some crates and a wobbly card table on a bare floor
just about filled the room.

Carrowick and Kramvit introduced themselves, and Kramvit started to
ask Poor Mr. Smith questions. These were all answered eagerly, and
Kramvit was almost convinced that the Poors didn't mind their situation
too much; they were all quite used to it.

Poor Mr. Smith asked some questions of Kramvit too, and was answered
good naturedly. He showed particular interest in the pin microphone
Kramvit wore, and seemed awed when he was told that he was probably
being seen and heard by people on Six at this very moment.

While Carrowick showed signs of impatience over the length of the
visit, Kramvit asked Smith, "Tell me, my friend, wouldn't you like
to see some entertainment on V.C.? Comedians or singers, or dancers,
perhaps?"

Poor Mr. Smith laughed, "Why no. Comedians and singers? Who wants to
see them when we can watch some lucky souls winning anywhere from one
to sixty-four million dollars, or more. I remember about forty years
ago, Mr. Krackel, our largest food pill manufacturer at that time,
tried something like that."

"Oh, did he?"

"Yes. He had the biggest two hour Qua show on the scopes. His daughter
liked to sing, and she talked him into devoting the first fifteen
minutes to singing. Well," Smith laughed, "that was the last time he
tried that. I read that the ratings for the show that evening went down
to zero. The studio was swamped with angry letters. Everyone wanted
to know why fifteen minutes of a good Qua show was wasted with such
nonsense."

Kramvit smiled and said, "Yes, I can understand that. Tell me, Poor Mr.
Smith, what would you do if you won on a Qua?"

"I'd try to help my people, of course. Perhaps like Legislator Brown.
He's an ex-Poor, you know, but he worked himself up the hard way. Won a
Qua, then studied and studied, and finally made the Legislature. He's
the one that passed the law to give us our V.C. centers. He's a great
man."

"That's a worthy ambition," said Kramvit.

"Do you people on Six have Qua shows, too?" asked Poor Mr. Smith.

"Yes. But not as many as you do."

"And do you have Poors like me on your planet?"

Kramvit said that they didn't, and went on to explain a little of the
situation of Six and the other five planets.

Poor Mr. Smith was amazed. He couldn't believe that there was any place
that didn't have Poors.

"Well, don't let it happen, then," he said. "Don't do it. Don't let
those Qua shows take over." His voice seemed to be getting stronger, or
was it just louder, now.

He leaned closer to Kramvit, his head only a foot away from the pin
microphone, and almost shouted, "Do you hear me? Don't let it happen
to you." He was near to sobbing now. "Be smart, stay happy--stop those
Quas. They'll only...."

Carrowick practically pulled Kramvit out the door, and started to
hurry away.

"Well," said Kramvit, "you told me that they didn't mind their
situation too much; Poor Mr. Smith almost had me believing the same
thing, but he sure didn't convince me."

"He's just a sick, old man," was Carrowick's answer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kramvit had insisted on visiting another Poor village the next day.
Earlier, this time, so that they'd find most of the people home. After
five or six visits, Kramvit was persuaded to leave by Carrowick, who
reminded him that he was to appear on Earth's largest Qua show himself
that very evening. Kramvit didn't want to appear, but Carrowick
convinced him that all preparations had been made. This was Earth's way
of honoring him, and he simply mustn't and couldn't refuse. Also, his
own people would be watching for him on the show. Kramvit had to agree
to do it.

When they had arrived at the studio, Kramvit was amazed at the hustle
and bustle that went on around them. The usual investigations,
interviews and testing that contestants went through were eliminated
for Kramvit, since he was an honored guest.

Air time approached rapidly, and Kramvit couldn't help feeling a
bit apprehensive. He wasn't used to appearing before multitudes of
this size, and it all made him feel uncomfortable. Carrowick assured
him that there was nothing to fear; this was simply a good will
appearance. The questions he would have to answer would all be in the
science category, and he should have no trouble with them.

Finally, Kramvit found himself standing in the wings of the vast stage.
The previous contestant was just answering his last ten part question.
He answered all the parts correctly, and left the stage to loud
applause. Now the Master of Ceremonies asked who was to be the next
guest. A booming voice whose body was nowhere to be seen, went through
a flowery introduction of Marryl Kramvit. Two beautiful young ladies,
dressed in almost nothing, appeared on each side of him. As the voice
finished the introduction, the girls all but dragged him into camera
range.

Kramvit jumped with fright as eight young men, each over six feet tall,
heralded his entrance with long, loud trumpets. He shook hands with the
Master of Ceremonies, chatted for a while, and finally was told to get
ready for his questions.

The first group of queries pertained to his particular field, and he
answered them correctly and easily. It took about ten minutes to arrive
at the $10,000 question. Kramvit knew that if and when he reached a
million dollars, he would be asked to come back in a week, which of
course he couldn't do, to tell if he would go for two million or keep
the one he had. He made a mental note to ask Carrowick as to the fate
of those who stopped at one or two million. He wondered if they were
looked down upon too.

Right now, the M.C. was telling him that he would have to enter the
sound proof booth for the $10,000 question. The booth appeared from
nowhere, and he was escorted into it by the two lovely, almost nude,
young ladies, who didn't seem to hear the trumpet blasts from the eight
young men.

When the door of the booth clicked shut, the booth moved out and over
the studio audience, and finally came to a stop in mid-air. There were
no wires or cables to be seen attached to the booth, but this didn't
bother Kramvit, since he knew the principles involved. He did feel
quite ridiculous, hanging suspended, with hundreds of faces upturned to
watch him.

It seemed to him that they must be awfully uncomfortable with their
necks craned like that. But he knew that the producers of the show were
only interested in the effect on the home viewers.

Kramvit lost count of the questions he answered, but he was now being
told that he was going for $500,000. A half million dollars! That was
the largest amount of money given away on the biggest quiz show on Six;
here it was just the beginning.

The question consisted of sixteen parts, and he answered them without
interruption until the fourteenth part. After he gave his answer to
this one, the M.C. asked him to repeat it. He did, hesitantly, and saw
the M.C. look nervously towards the control booth.

"I'm sorry, Mr. Kramvit, that's not the correct answer."

Kramvit felt himself being lowered towards the stage. He was helped out
of the booth by the young ladies, and escorted to the M.C. No trumpets,
now. The audience was silent as the M.C. thanked Kramvit, and told him
how honored he was to be the first to welcome the first visitor from
another planet on V.C. He also told him how sorry he was that Kramvit
had lost.

Kramvit walked off stage while the audience applauded.

... "The funny thing is, I really knew the answer," Kramvit was saying
to Carrowick, with a sheepish grin. "I was just so nervous. I'm not
accustomed to this at all."

"Well," said Carrowick, "it's nothing to worry about. As I said, it was
just a good will appearance."

They were leaving the studio, when a young man in uniform approached
Kramvit.

"Excuse me, sir, a Phonogram for you."

Kramvit looked at the envelope and saw that it was from the High
Council of Six. He turned the envelope over and read the name.

It was addressed to, "_Poor Mr. Marryl Kramvit"_!





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Poors, by Harry Lorayne

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE POORS ***

***** This file should be named 60384.txt or 60384.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/3/8/60384/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
