The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Last Trespasser, by Jim Harmon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Last Trespasser

Author: Jim Harmon

Release Date: December 8, 2019 [EBook #60881]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LAST TRESPASSER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          THE LAST TRESPASSER

                             By JIM HARMON

                     _There was nothing wrong with
                  him that a Rider could not cure ...
                     and the rougher, the better!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, July 1960.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


They would not believe Malloy was alone in there, in the padded cell.
That made it worse.

Malloy was in his month for lying on his stomach to avoid bed sores. He
was walking from Peoria, Illinois, to Detroit, Michigan, currently and
he had just reached Chicago. It was fine to see State Street again, and
the jewelry stores stuck in the alcoves of churches with the handsomely
barred windows.

A man in Army-surplus green with an old library book was asking for
carfare to a hiring hall when they began opening the door.

Malloy rolled over on one elbow. It was peculiar. They hadn't done that
for three years.

Two of them came inside, thick men with disinterested faces.

"Try no sudden moves," one of them advised him.

"We will anticipate you," the other one added.

Malloy went through the unfamiliar process of standing up. He looked
at two men. "I wouldn't try anything against the four of you. I'm not
_that_ crazy."

"Time for an interrogation, Malloy," the orderly said. "Come with us."

Malloy fell in between them and left the padded cell, frowning.

"What kind of an interrogation?" he asked them.

"What other kind?" one countered. "A sanity hearing."

He felt his eyebrows jerk. _His sanity?_ He thought that had been
established long ago. Or his lack of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Malloy remembered the doctor. He hadn't had much else to do for several
years.

He was Dr. Heirson, a graying man with starched face and collar. But
the younger man sitting with Heirson behind the broad, translucent desk
was a stranger to Malloy. He seemed to be a comic strip drawing, all in
straight lines.

"Yes, sir."

"Step forward, Michael," Heirson said.

Malloy stepped forward. It had been a long time since he had been
allowed to travel so far.

"Now relax, Michael," the doctor continued, leaning forward and
grinning hideously. "All you have to do is tell me the truth."

"No, I don't, Doctor. I'm under no compulsion to tell you the truth.
I'm perfectly capable of lying if it would do me any good."

"Hush that, Michael. You must not try to make believe you can lie. I
know you tell me only the truth."

"All right," Malloy said, exhaling deeply. "Believe that I speak only
the truth if you like. But remember, I just told you that I'm a liar
and that must be true."

Heirson blinked in watery confusion. He was obviously senile; only the
old man's Rider kept him from coming apart at his mental seams.

The angle-faced man spoke into Heirson's ear. The old doctor continued
to blink for a moment, then faced Malloy, the lines of his face drawn
into an asterisk.

"What? You mean to tell me that you don't have an inner voice that
urges you to tell the truth at all times?"

"No," Malloy explained, "I do not hear voices."

"You don't?"

"Never."

"And there is no inner sense that tells you when somebody is plotting
against you?"

"Absolutely not."

"And when you are in trouble or danger, there is nothing that allows
you to somehow look into the future or read minds or see through walls?"

"I can't do any of those things," Malloy stated.

Heirson threw up his hands. "Complete withdrawal from reality!
Pathological! Why is he here anyway?"

The younger man grasped the withered thin upper arm and whispered
audibly but not understandably. Heirson's face eventually quivered
back in line with Malloy's.

"Michael, do you know what year this is?" the doctor asked.

Malloy thought about that one. He wasn't absolutely certain, but he
made some rapid calculations.

"1978?"

"1979! And what has been the single most important development in human
history in recent times?"

Malloy sighed. He knew what he was expected to say.

"The coming of the Riders."

"And what are Riders?"

"Riders," Malloy recited patiently, "are elements of a symbiotic
life-form. They have united with human beings to make one symbiotic
creature. They have given much more than they have taken. All prominent
religions recognize that they do not interfere with human free will.
They have made us healthier, virtually immortal, and near supermen. The
human race now is so much zoa, and every man is a zoon. Every man but
me. _Damn it, I don't have any Rider!_ I'm not a superman and I cannot
get away with pretending to be one!"

Heirson oscillated his head. "Michael, Michael, your case isn't
unique. There are others who claim that they have no Riders--usually
maintaining that they are naturally superhuman and need no help from
some funny kind of foreigner. They are tolerated the same way, that
B.R., we tolerated people who claimed they possessed psychic auras, or
who got up in cathedrals and yelled that they had no souls. But you,
Michael, are a trouble-maker. You've been rude, vulgar, and reckless
with your life and others in your pretense to be Riderless. Your
pathological retreat from reality leaves us with no choice but to--"

The other man behind the desk shoved a paper in front of Heirson and
tapped it forcefully with an index finger.

       *       *       *       *       *

Heirson read the paper and his eyebrows went askew. "Yes, yes, we
have discovered that there is a basic difference between you and the
others who maintain they have no Riders. It would seem it _has_ been
established that you really _do not_ have a Rider. Remarkable! Yes.
Well, I have no alternative but to dismiss you from this institution,
Michael Malloy, and to extend to you my personal apology for any
inconvenience your three-and-a-half-years' detainment may have caused
you."

A trick, Malloy thought.

Only what point would there be in tricking him?

The oppressive horror of it crushed down upon him with its full weight.

"Oh no," he said. "No, sir. Take me back to my padded cell. I've got
my rights. I'm not going out there again. Maybe I could have learned to
live with it once, but not now. I can't face up to living with a world
of supermen, people who can do everything better than I can. _Take me
back._ I think I'm going to get violent any minute now!"

He took a swing at the nearest guard, but naturally the guard's Rider
told him what was coming and he dodged deftly, caught Malloy's arm
and twisted it into half-nelson to hold him completely, infuriatingly
helpless. Malloy had to hold back tears of frustration.

"Fortunately," Dr. Heirson croaked, "you can do no harm even if you do
get violent, and I'm sure everyone will want to do everything possible
for a poor unfortunate like yourself. We all will make allowances."

"No, no, no!" Malloy announced with the rhythm of his stomping feet. "I
won't leave here! I _won't_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The man beside Heirson favored Malloy with a smile; Malloy wasn't
sure whether it was friendly or mocking. The stranger nodded his head
briefly to the guards.

Malloy was dragged, protesting, down the marble-floored hallway to the
entrance of the mental hospital. His anguished cries echoed across the
ornate ceiling of the old building.

He was shoved out the front door with a parcel in brown paper under his
arms.

Malloy made one desperate attempt to get back inside but the massive
door clanged in his face, and he could hear the reverberations dying
away inside and the steady retreat of footsteps.

Malloy turned away in pain from the unaccustomed brilliance and warmth
of the sun and banged on the door with his fists and demanded to be
readmitted.

He grew hoarser and hoarser and he slid further and further down until
he was squatting on the threshold, his cheek rested against the warm
varnished surface of the door.

Malloy had never been an overly proud or vain man before the Riders had
come. After all, he'd had one of the most menial jobs on Earth; he had
been a magazine editor. But now he felt squashed under the thumb of
humiliation.

The monstrous indignity of it all!

To be thrown out of an asylum!

After a time, Malloy felt a coolness, a wetness on his head.

He dreamed a little dream to himself that he knew was a dream: they
were coming to wrap him in warm sheets again.

But it was only a dream. This wetness wasn't warm--it was chilly. He
finally identified it from his memories. This was rain.

He stirred himself and gathered up the brown bundle that he knew must
contain his suit, papers and a little money.

Malloy trudged down the road toward the town that lay below the
sanitarium, his collar turned up.

He found he didn't mind the rain so much. It tended to settle the dust,
and the walk would be a long one.

       *       *       *       *       *

Grayson Amery, the iron-haired publisher, greeted Malloy with a firm,
warm, dry handshake.

"Michael, it's certainly good to see you again. You are looking well."

"Yes, the bruises left by the strait jacket straps don't show," said
Malloy.

"A unique miscarriage of justice," Amery said.

"I certainly hope it's unique. I hope there aren't any more poor devils
like me locked away."

Amery offered Malloy a chair with a broad, well-manicured hand. "I'm
confident that there aren't. And you are out now, fortunately."

"You can call it fortune if you like," Malloy said uneasily.

"But you _are_ glad to be out?"

Malloy hesitated. "I'm resigned to it. The flow of time washed some
of the salt out of the wound. Being born is definitely a traumatic
experience."

"How well I remember!" Amery said.

Malloy glanced at him sharply, then eased back in his chair. Of course,
like everybody else, thanks to his Rider, Amery had total recall.
Malloy couldn't even remember his first birthday party.

"Is there any way I can be of help to you, Michael?" Amery went on.

"Sure. I want my job back."

Amery's forehead squeezed into lines of distress. "Yes, I was made
aware of that. But, Michael, there have been a lot of changes in the
publishing business since you were with us. For instance, it would be
difficult for you to proofread a manuscript today."

"I'm hardly the type who can't spell. I haven't forgotten that."

"I know, Michael, but here--have a look at this."

Amery handed over a sheet of paper.

Malloy glanced at it. It seemed a typical sheet of a writer's
manuscript, though a horrible yellowish gray that made the typescript
from the tatters of a ribbon almost illegible. It was also smudged with
jelly-doughnut fingerprints and there were several holes burned in it
by droppings of cigarette ash. Pretty sloppy, but things didn't seem
to have changed much. Not until he read the paper.

    --/Cynthia/--/ (walked) toward --/#((him))#/-- jauntily (/).

    "'Hi,'" --/she/--# called (out) to ((him)).

    "'/Hello/'", 'Sweetstuff', he / said /, ((trying)) to # sound #
    (gay) /....

Malloy looked up blankly. "What are all the cockeyed punctuation marks
doing in there?" he asked.

Amery exhaled Havana smoke expansively. "That's the way things are now,
Michael. Those punctuation marks indicate whether the protagonist's
thoughts are self-directed or Rider-directed, or a combination of
both, and which is dominant at the time, human or Rider. They became
absolutely essential with the coming of the Riders."

Malloy covered his lips with his fingers. "Of course, I don't
understand this punctuation now. But I could learn it quickly enough."

The publisher shook his massive head. "No, you couldn't learn it.
You don't have a Rider. You could never understand all the little
subtleties."

"I could fake it."

"Never. It might get past the average reader, but the author and
critics would know right away. All an editor can do is watch for
typographical errors and change them the way the author wanted them
if his fingers hadn't tripped over the wrong keys. As it was, we used
to get a good many complaints from writers about you making changes in
their work."

"Grammar," Malloy explained. "I got kind of a bug about grammar. I used
to fix up manuscripts some."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rubbing out his fat cigar, Amery leaned across his desk. "This isn't
like the good old days when I started out, Mike. If I had my way today,
I'd get the National Guard ordered out and have those miserable slobs
grind out stories with a bayonet at their backs!" The red gleam dimmed
in Amery's eyes. "Those were the days, by God! Back then you didn't
edit manuscripts with any dinky little blue pencil--you used a razor
blade and a grease stick!"

Amery slumped down in his swivel, his eyes now only embers. "But that
day is over, Mike. Writers have their rights, damn them. You get the
wrong punctuation in one of their private-eye epics, Mike, and one of
them will slap a suit against the company for defacing a Work of Art,
and both of us could land in jail."

"Westerns," Malloy suggested in desperation. "Historical fiction. They
can't employ the new punctuation. I could edit them."

The veteran publisher shook his head again. "No. Cowboys in westerns
today turn your stomach more than ever with their damned nobility and
purity. Heroines in historical novels act just as if deodorants and
Living Bras had been in use back then. And these stories are written as
if the characters _did_ have Riders, with only a few minor concessions."

"Okay." Malloy stood up. "I'll go quietly."

"Maybe you're lucky, Mike," Amery said up at him. "I remember
old-fashioned ideals like privacy and free will and free enterprise.
They don't exist any more. You can't tell me that my free will hasn't
been affected. Why, every business deal I've had since the Coming has
been strictly ethical. You know that isn't like me!"

"No," Malloy admitted thoughtfully.

"I'm even so ethical now that I recognize I owe you something. I know
money can't repay--"

"Hell it can't," Malloy said quickly.

The publisher stripped off a sheaf of bills with deliberation.

Malloy pocketed them. Enough to keep him eating for a couple of months.
After that, there was always the Salvation Army. He didn't have
anything to worry about, really.

"Amery, what would _you_ do if you were in my place?" he heard himself
ask suddenly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Amery steepled his fingers. "I hesitate to suggest a deception to
anyone, but since you ask me what I would do if I didn't have a Rider,
I will tell you the truth: I would pretend that I did not have a Rider."

"What are you talking about? I _don't_ have a Rider. So far as I myself
personally know, I'm the only person in the whole damned world that
doesn't have one. I'd like to find out why, but I'm no scientist. So I
just have to live with it. Or without it."

"There's a very, very fine difference," Amery pointed out with one
finger. "Semantics is no longer a living science since the Coming, but
I'll try to make myself clear. You must pretend to have to pretend that
you don't have a Rider. Join the Jockey Set."

"Jockey Set," Malloy mumbled, massaging the back of his neck. "I've
been put away for three and a half years. What's the Jockey Set?"

"Jockeys are characters who pretend that they don't have Riders, that
they are self-sufficient human beings. Sometimes they use their Riders'
powers and claim to be natural supermen. Sometimes they leave Rider
power untapped and pretend to be natural, old-type human beings. But
they are all fakes. The Rider in them comes out sooner or later."

"But if they have Riders, will I be able to fool them into thinking I'm
only pretending to be without one?"

Amery lifted his shoulders and drew down the corners of his mouth. "Who
knows? I will tell you this, though--you must be pretty much of a blank
to a Rider. If they won't touch you, it must mean they can't."

Malloy started to ask him how he knew what Riders felt about him, then
thought better of it.

"How would I fake trying to hide the fact that I didn't have a Rider? I
suppose, maybe, by slipping up and letting myself predict the future or
something...."

"That's it!" Amery beamed. "You see? It will be easy!"

"Of course," Malloy said dully.

"I mean, that is to say, any time you don't do something and don't do
it particularly well, the Jockeys will only admire your splendid act."

Malloy nodded thoughtfully. He turned and shook hands with the
publisher. "Well, Amery, thanks for the money--and the advice. You
always were the most devious master of deceit I ever knew."

"Thank you," Amery said with great sincerity.

"There's one more thing. This may sound silly, but they found me out
pretty quick after it happened. What does a Rider look like? Where do
they come from? Where do they fasten onto the brain or body of human
beings?"

Amery leaned across the desk and backhanded Malloy in the mouth.

"Get out!" Amery said.

Malloy left the office, holding a handkerchief to his cut lip.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a dump. The name had changed a half dozen times over the last
half century, but the spots in the tablecloths remained the same. The
dump had seen the Lost Generation, the Beat Generation, and now the
Ridden Generation.

Only, Malloy supposed, they called themselves the Riderless Generation.
Well, maybe they were. Maybe they were like him.

He walked in, hanging onto that thought, his stride long. He cut down
his stride. At that rate he would be out in the alley soon.

Self-consciously, Malloy slid into a chair at a vacant table so he
wouldn't draw undue attention.

As he began idly tracing the grease spots on the tablecloths that
looked like the wrappers from a line of cereal boxes, all red
and white checks, he discovered every shaved head in the room was
triangulating him.

He shifted uncomfortably. He was playing it middle-of-the-road. He
had a close crew-cut and wore a plaid flannel shirt and purple velvet
ballet leotards. Maybe he was too far on the conservative side for here.

"Spell it, saddle," the counterman called to him without coming front.

"Cola," he ordered. "With chickory, pecans and honey."

"One sou'easter on the path," the counterman called out tiredly.

"With you're going to sit there, He?" a liquid female voice flowed into
his ear.

"With I'm doing it, She," Malloy said, not turning.

She eased around in front of the table. She was red-haired and built,
wearing black leotards and a coat of black enamel.

"Your pupils are going to wear me away," the redhead said.

"I've only got eyes. How else can I read you?"

"That is Truth. Tru-u-th."

The counterman set out Malloy's drink. "It's waiting for you, saddle.
Don't tease it or it'll bite."

He went for the cola and brought it to the table.

"You came back?" she said.

He pulled up his chair. "I always come back. You can risk money on it.
Saddle up?"

"Saddle before the post, my touchstone."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl sat down. Her green eyes were moving, always moving, but
mostly over Malloy, his chair, the table. "You going to keep possession
here long?"

"I don't know any reason why not," said Malloy.

"Of course you don't!" she snapped. "Only--they close at five."

"The billboard gives it two dozen hours a day."

"They trim a little off at five. To sweep the floors and change the
tableshrouds."

"Change 'em from one table to another," Malloy jibed.

"You formed it. Clean ones in front, dirty ones in the shadows. Let's
try breathing air," she suggested.

"Wait'll we gate up. I've got pecans to drink."

The counterman's hawking laugh filled the room. "Let him wait, Mandy. I
might as well wait to later to sweep it in."

Her face caught fire for an instant. "The Board of Health don't go away
just because you can read their dirty minds."

"So take him out," the counterman snarled.

Malloy suddenly decided he had played hard to get long enough. This was
his first chance to get in with the Jockeys. From what he had heard,
they had some kind of underground set-up to help their own in business
and the arts. He needed that help.

"Let's lope," he said, pushing his chair back and leaving silver on the
table for the drink and a tip.

He touched the girl's lacquered arm and steered her toward the door.

Behind him, the floor fell in.

Ripping, tearing, rendering, splintering, crashing, crushing,
reverberating bedlam!

Of course, it couldn't have been the floor caving in, Malloy thought as
he turned to see a great hole where the floor had disappeared.

The hole was where the table and chair he had been using had stood a
moment before.

Flapping at the sides of the cave-in were innumerable thicknesses of
linoleum, and between each one an incredible accumulation of filth and
debris--O. Henry candy bar wrappers, a cover from a _Collier's_, a
booklet on the new Packard ("Ask the Man Who Owns One"), a newspaper
article on Flo Ziegfield's girls (stop thinking in slogans), but mostly
just dirt--dust, webs, lint, filth. There had been no boards under
the table; the ends of the exposed boards weren't freshly broken but
old and rotted porously smooth. Only the linoleum and the dirt had
supported the table for years.

Malloy edged closer and saw some broken sticks lying on a jagged pile
of coke standing out black in the darkness far below.

The redhead pulled him back from the edge, her fingers digging into his
biceps, writhing with a strange passionate intensity, as if she were
trying to knead him into a layer for a pie.

"With you're a REAL Jockey, He, a REAL Jockey, a REAL ONE. _Truth!_
I'm going to take you to the Commissioner, He, the Commissioner in his
saddle."

Somehow, uncertain, yet surely, Malloy was dimly pleased at this.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Don't say it," the fat man remarked, glancing up for an instant, then
lowering his eyes to the splay of papers on his desk. "No esoteric
jargon, please."

"All right," Malloy said readily. "Shall I sit down?"

"By all means, saddle up." A second chin trembled. "Damn it, there _I_
go. Have a chair."

Malloy took the only chair not piled down with books, or maps, or
correspondence, or manuscripts, or notes. It had a straight back and a
plastic seat, piously uncomfortable.

The big man looked up a second time and folded rows of pink sausages
complacently. "So you want to be a Jockey, eh?"

Malloy thinned his lips and licked the insides of them, making a snap
judgment. "Not really. I don't have a Rider, and I want what help
the Jockeys can give me. I'm not particularly anxious to acquire
introverted slang and a shaved head, but if that goes along with the
help...." He spread his hands eloquently.

"So you don't think you have a Rider?"

Malloy didn't know how to answer that. "I don't think I have a Rider,"
he repeated without inflection.

"I don't think I have a Rider, either--only I know I do," the fat man
said.

Malloy stood up elaborately. "You dirty steed."

"Oh, sit down, Malloy, sit down. I'm a Jockey like the rest of you.
There's only one difference. I _know_ I'm sick. I've got a Rider and
all its powers, but I could no more use them than an acrophobe could
climb a ladder up the Empire State to get at a naked princess sitting
on a bag of gold."

Malloy eased back down onto the chair and shook his head slowly. "That
_would_ be a hell of a way to be."

The big man slammed down two hams made out of fists. "You are exactly
the same way, sonny boy! Only you don't know any better."

Malloy swallowed. The man known as the Commissioner might be right at
that. "Have it your way," Malloy said. "But I sure _think_ I don't have
a Rider."

The Commissioner smirked. Malloy knew what that meant. He knew men
like the fat boy; he understood them. He had had Grayson Amery, Dr.
Heirson--he knew the breed.

"What are you holding back on me?" Malloy demanded.

"Malloy, do you even know what a Rider is?"

Malloy paused. Then, "No, I don't."

"I thought not. Shall I tell you?"

"I imagine you were planning to."

The Commissioner braced his fists on the work surface of the desk and
lifted his bulk halfway from the chair. "The Riders are a disease. Like
rabies."

Malloy cleared his throat. "That's one way to look at them."

"Don't be servilely civil to me. That is an accurate, clinical
description of the Riders--they are a cerebral infection."

"You mean their powers of emergency telepathy and precognition, their
seeming secondary personality--all that's a hallucination?"

Malloy was fevered as he asked it. It was at last some confirmation of
his own theory. The whole world was sick, except him.

"That is exactly what I _don't_ mean," the Commissioner said
contemptuously. "The Riders are real entities, capable of real miracles
so far as we are concerned. But they aren't mammals, or insects, or
pure energy forms--they are viruses."

"Viruses that can think?" Malloy asked, aghast.

"No. No one unit of the strain can think, but _chains_ of them can.
Together they form different combinations and responses, like analog
components or brain synapses. Objectively, they are an infection that
can enter the body anywhere but that always spread to the prefrontal
lobes--like rabies. Only they don't destroy tissue; the Riders are
benign parasites."

"That's one word for them," Malloy admitted. "But if they are a virus,
there must be antibodies--is that the word?--for them?"

The fat man snorted unpleasantly. "You can't fight an infection that is
smart enough to consciously change its shape and fight back. Natural
adaptation and mutation are tough enough. Besides, nobody would stand
for being cured of his Rider, any more than you would let me 'cure' you
of having eyes."

"Then what was your point in telling me the nature of the Riders? You
weren't merely conducting an adult education class."

"True." The Commissioner burped delicately and settled back in his
chair. "As a matter of fact, there is one thing I left out: the Riders
aren't suited for Earth. They have difficulty in adapting themselves to
live on this planet. Once they get into a human being, they are okay.
But before that they are weak and have to get hothouse care. Exactly
that--_hothouse care_."

Malloy's tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth. He pulled it loose and
said, "And you can break the windows of hothouses!"

The Commissioner smiled. It was unpleasant to watch.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Nothing personal, Malloy," the Commissioner whispered almost
subvocally as they lay together in the green ooze, "but we haven't
known you long enough to give you our trust. The first false step will
be a long one for you--exactly six feet."

Malloy tried to squint through the foggy darkness, and almost instantly
gave it up. "You can't blame me for everything, Commissioner. I told
you I wasn't convinced that some of the Riders in there won't precog
our plans to save themselves."

"All the ones we are going to destroy are the unhooked-up ones. They
can't send anything any more than one unattached telephone could.
They aren't really very good with their psi powers. It's strictly an
emergency talent, like our sudden spurts of adrenalin."

He gave an unsatisfied grunt and bellied forward.

Up ahead of Malloy, the Commissioner and an unstable stable of Jockeys
who had been coming into town for weeks lay the secret hatchery of
unhosted Rider viruses. They could only multiply beyond a certain
self-maintaining balance inside the human body, and had to be grown
in cultures on Earth, outside the healthy climate of a null-gravity,
radiated vacuum in space.

It was the Commissioner's plan to destroy all the virus cultures,
so that in eighteen years or so there would come along a Rider-free
generation to outnumber the minor supermen still infected by the Riders.

Malloy had a lot of doubts about the plan, but he was willing to go
along for his own reasons.

During the past few weeks of indoctrination and commando training,
Malloy had had time to think. It hadn't taken nearly that long to
figure out the Commissioner.

The Commissioner was simply a man who had to have power, and he
couldn't stand for a whole human race to be more powerful than he was,
just because of a lack within himself. He was out to pull everybody
down to his level, so he could stand out again and take over.

Still, Malloy thought, I may have something to say about that.

The men and a few women crawled through the semi-tropical Florida mud
toward the low buildings glimmering in the light from the thin crescent
of moon.

Malloy elbowed a foot closer to the hothouse breeding factory up to
here in stinking muck. Any second now, he thought, somebody is going to
roll over on a cottonmouth.

"Ready with your cloths," a man next to him relayed, first catching his
attention and mostly lip-synching it.

Malloy dug out his Asphixion pad, and readied the tab to pull off the
plastic coating. Clamped over the guards' faces, the catalytic agent
would rapidly absorb the men's oxygen. With a partial vacuum in the
mouth and larynx, no cries could carry and the victim would rapidly
black out.

The pad would be removed and the guards would be allowed to catch up on
their air intake. They wouldn't be harmed in any way final, so their
emergency psi warning system wasn't supposed to cut in.

Malloy shrugged.

The plan would never work.

It was based on equal parts of megalomania and wishful thinking.

Malloy's only problem was when and how to best expose the plot before
it was found out without his help.

He couldn't stand up and shout a warning. If he tried that, one of the
fanatic Jockeys was sure to clamp an Asphixion pad over his face, and,
with him, they might not be considerate enough to remove it.

Only a treacherous, self-seeking rat would even think of exposing
these poor misguided people and betraying his own race to some
extra-terrestrial viruses.

Malloy's elbows slipped out from under him and he went face first into
the mud.

He forced himself to keep from spluttering and lifted his head. _Where
had that idea come from?_

       *       *       *       *       *

For one adrenalin-charged moment, he thought he had finally acquired a
Rider.

But no. A Rider would hardly urge him to carry out an attack against
the citadel of existence to its own kind. It had to be something
simpler, more elemental than that.

The voice had been his own conscience crying out against treason.

He followed the probable train of circumstances if he heeded his
conscience.

He would most probably be killed in this useless attack. He doubted
that this was the _only_ breeding chamber for Riders, or, that if it
were, the Riders safely in human bodies couldn't transplant part of
themselves and start new cultures.

If he wasn't killed, he would probably be returned to his cell, his
padded cell, by Rider-ridden people.

If he were somehow let off, he would be left to wander the streets, a
public ward.

The trouble with his conscience was that it wasn't logical--and it had
a poor memory.

It didn't recall those three and a half years mislaid in an asylum.

_Only an unprincipled_--

Malloy shut it off and felt a drop of sweat running down the deep
crevices between his eyebrows. My only problem, he reminded himself
again and again, is how and when to expose this raid before they
discover it without my help.

The solution bloomed in his mind.

It was remarkable how well the human mind could operate under stress.

He half-rose from the mud so he would be silhouetted to anybody
watching, and fell back.

The guards hadn't spotted him, but he heard the Jockeys scurrying
toward him through the mud.

The squishing halted near him.

He waited.

The commandos moved ahead, leaving him behind.

When he felt it was safe, Malloy took the Asphixion pad off his face--a
pad without the transparent plastic coat being pulled off.

He made out a buddy team of Jockeys almost on top of the first
Rider-ridden manned post. All the others had to be far ahead....

Malloy leaped to his feet--or tried to. He managed to slosh to his
knees.

"_Raid!_" he screamed. "_Jockeys are raiding the hothouse!_"

The lights flared up, a magnesium, Fourth-of-July night glare. Guards
with guns sprang from everywhere. The guns went into action. Clouds of
crystalline Asphixion snowed down on the raiders.

From far back, Malloy watched in satisfaction.

The sound came from behind him.

The Commissioner blobbed forward, a distorted ball of slimy mud.

"I will crush you under my foot like a bloated white grub!" the fat man
announced with sincerity.

Malloy's eyes narrowed in the darkness.

"Stay away from me Commissioner, or I'll push you down--way, way down!"

The blocky figure retreated a step, quivering impotently.

Malloy nodded to himself.

The Commissioner had spoken too knowingly of a terrible fear of falling.

       *       *       *       *       *

The interrogator was the younger man who sat next to Dr. Heirson during
Malloy's release from the hospital.

"I feel you'd like to know my identity, Mr. Malloy. My name is Pearson;
I work for the federal government. Now would you tell me just what you
hoped to gain by betraying the assault force of Jockeys?"

It was the crux of the matter.

Malloy took a deep breath and said it.

"I want a Rider. I want to be like everybody else. If you people have
any sense of gratitude and justice--and you seem to--you'll set up some
kind of scientific project to find out why I haven't caught a case of
Riders and to see that I am properly infected."

Pearson leaned back in the other straight chair inside the
rough-boarded outbuilding.

"Mr. Malloy, we _know_ why none of the Riders who drifted in from outer
space infected you. You already _had_ a Rider--an entirely human,
not alien, one. You are schizoid--you have a split personality. You
adjusted to it to an incredible degree and submerged it, but it was
still there and no alien would touch a man who already had two minds."

Malloy felt no emotion, only an inescapable acceptance. "My
conscience," he said.

Pearson nodded. "Your second personality is becoming steadily less
recessive."

"But telepathy--all the tricks of the Riders--I can't do them."

"You will be able to. Two minds _are_ better than one. It would seem
that schizophrenia is the natural state of supermen, when properly
trained and integrated. In fact, you should be able to accomplish more
than a Rider-ridden man--you will have two human personalities, and the
Riders are little more than viruses conscious of their own existence."

"You mean I'm a _superman_?"

"Yes. But unfortunately you are a threat to the present order because
of your non-Rider attitude. You are being returned to your padded cell.
There are guards outside. I hope you will walk out quietly to meet
them."

Malloy walked out quietly to meet the guards who would take him away.
On his way out, he met Grayson Amery coming in.

Pearson shook hands warmly with the publisher.

"Mr. Amery, the government owes you a vote of thanks for recommending
Malloy for this job of infiltrating the Jocks. Turning against one of
your own kind is never easy...."

Amery laughed lightly. "Malloy was not 'one of my kind.' He was an
editor. Even worse than that, I think in his attitude he always
remained no more than a writer. I understand he is being returned to
confinement?"

Pearson looked troubled. "Yes, sir. Personally, I would feel more
comfortable if he were eliminated. I am not at all sure that we can
keep Malloy under lock and key once he develops his potential of
schizophrenia."

"I know. Unhappily, the primitive ethics of the Riders prevent our
taking care of Mike in the most efficient way. That's what I wanted to
talk to you about. May I sit down?"

"Please do, sir," said Pearson.

Amery took the vacant chair and leaned forward with boyish enthusiasm.

"Mr. Pearson, I have faith in humanity. I believe we can keep the
benefits of any situation, including the Riders, and eliminate the
disadvantages and limitations. My boy, all of us must start to work to
find a way to override the Riders!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Last Trespasser, by Jim Harmon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LAST TRESPASSER ***

***** This file should be named 60881.txt or 60881.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/8/8/60881/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
